Many of you have that. In the Dharmapala practices, at the last, what we say, I just talk this part
,
part here in the Tibet, where I say, in that is said, in English words, do not engage any
negative activities, practicing with you, perfectly, and completely subjugate your own mind,
this is the teaching of the Buddha. According, I think if you have this Dharmapala, it's the
last page, it's the last page, because I'll talk and you sit here. So that according to many great
masters of the teaching, this is the really convinced teach, the entire teaching of the
Buddha Chaktamuni. Buddha Chaktamuni gave what often used to call eighty-four thousand of the
teachings. They gave a lot of teachings, eighty-four thousand teachings. And those teachings are
so can summarize twelve excellent teachings. And that twelve excellent teachings summarize
in the three basket teachings. And I think many of you, those three baskets are Vinaya,
Sutra, and Abhinavana. Why is it called basket? Because Vinaya is not just one Vinaya, Vinaya,
Vinaya. It has all the richness of the teaching. So that is a metaphor, basket,
fooled with Vinaya teachings. That basket is fooled with, what means Vinaya? Vinaya means
discipline,
discipline. So that basket is filled with discipline teachings. That is what means basket.
And then same way, the Sutra basket. What that means? Again, Sutra is condensed teachings,
more summarized teaching. More summarized teaching is also not just one item. There is
many, many beautiful, again teaching. More emphasizing on the concentrations. More meditative
techniques filled with that, that basket. So therefore, it is called the basket, named as
metaphor. And the third one is Abhinavana. Abhinavana is again, of course, old Sanskrit word. But
Abhinavana,
what means are the, Abhinavana means, means as seen exactly as it is. Or phenomena seen
exactly as it is. Is, exactly on the direct perception status. So that what means, that is
actually wisdom teaching, wisdom. So this is not just one kind of item of the wisdom teaching,
but there is a variety of exploring of the wisdom teaching, that filled, that basket filled with
that. Therefore, it is called Abhinavana basket teachings. So those are kind of three, three
fitakas or three basket teachings in the Buddhism that. And now that whole three basket teachings
summarize to this teaching. For everything is really teaching. So if the whole Buddha's teaching,
every look, what is teaching song? Teaching song. Teaching on how to avoid negative activities.
Negative activities. Teaching on how to perform the positive activities.
Then primarily, how to subdue one's own mind.
Why is God to subdue your own mind? Because all the positive and the negatives are coming from
fundamentally ignited from mind. You ask yourself, that's true. Every hour action
ordinarily started from this emptiness mind. No way, we say, come from, but from the emptiness,
all started. So therefore, subdue your own mind. That is that. That is it. It's like the whole
practitioners really should remember, we all should remember this teaching. Do not engage
any negative activities. Or try to not engage any negative activities.
Perform practicing virtue perfectly or perform the practices. And now, what means negatives,
of course, your own negatives. Negative is the disturbances. Disturb to our sound. Disturb to the
others. It will disturb, disturbing to me, it disturbing to you. That is what the negative is.
Who will disturb first? One's own sound, who activated that, will disturb it and become
heavy, burdened, loaded, emotional, uncomfortable, and ducked, eyes cold, completely. That where it
started is from mind. And mind is what? In the teaching said, and we see subdue is the emptiness.
I mean, it's not just a way of following, Buddha said, and because we like to believe on
what Buddha said. That is not only case. When you look to our mind, it's mind, there's nothing to
find of the mind. It's empty. That's really how it started. So, that is how it started with that.
In with the, the tendence of the ego cling. Tendence of the ego. What is the ego?
Ego is a mental attitude, mental aspect, self-important, self-centered mind, self-important.
That is known as the ego, commonly. Nature of the ego is darkness. It's not wisdom. Ego is
ignorance. And then ego has what? Ego is as, fear, fear. Ego is frightening, frightening.
Because it says it becomes so, so selfish. Therefore, always have the fear, going to lose,
or going to happen, something. F-E-A-R, fear force. So, it's darkness is fear force. And then also,
it has aggressive qualities. That is anger. Not actually anger, but it is very forceful things
to defend it. Defend it. That is what the ego is. So, ego is dark, ego is fearful, ego is very
tense.
Anger. Anger to defend or to protect. Ego is sad. That is the ego. Prove that ego. We have this ego
from the biggest times. Same time with the defense of the ego, what is? Is that negative emotions?
Acting negative emotions, acting tools of the ego arising in the form of anger,
form of jellous, form of ignorance, form of attachment. That sizzling in our heart and mind
and begin to reflect that externally through, verbally and physically coming out.
Moment that study in our heart and mind activity, that individually, and we are not happy, we are
not
peaceful. That peace and harmony, calmness, quietness is gone. It's become only kind of names that
complete this effort. Now, our mind is controlled, overpowered by this active, negative emotion
that
comes from the ego, ego that comes from the emptiness, our mind. And now, that reflecting to
how we completely saturated all our channels. Our channels, our energies, all that saturated.
That created tense to our physical, our body, our everything become tense, tense. And now,
we project that to the song. So, we already, when we have become tense, we are not comfortable,
happy in peace, as I say. Now, when that projected to the others, then it created the same thing.
It created such a big, frightful situation to the others, all uncomfortables,
frightened fools. And then, then their peace and harmony is also lost.
So, that's what it's called, negativities. It created everything dark, everything emotions,
everything uncomfortable, everything unpeaceful, restless. That is what the negative is all started
from, from the emptiness part. And therefore, then what the greatest master is, tame your mind.
Being practitioners, we should look immediately, look to the mind, try to tame the mind. Whatever
method that you're going to use, Hinayana method or the basic Buddha method, or the Mahayana method
,
or Vaidhyana method, try to not hovering, circling, homemade that in heart.
That's what's called tame your mind. Taming, that is timing, taming. And we are able to do that.
We are good, that is good sign of the practicing, your good practitioners of the one following the
teaching and the greatest master of the Buddha chapter. Teachings, we tame, we let that stop.
Not that projected, even that hovering in our mind and brain, but let that subside, let that
liberate
it. Where that go? It comes from emptiness. It went back to the emptiness. What it does,
that it does. We need that happen. What it does, according to the teaching, the greatest teachers,
it cleaved the habit dependence, sewn beneath that momentous. It reduced the habit dependence of
that
erupting quality of the emotions, the volcanoes. It really subsided. That's how we cleanse the
habit
dependence. That's how we transform the situation into download. That is what, what. So that is
greediness. So therefore, the root of the negativities, root of negativities, cause of negativities
is ego and negative emotions. And ego means also what? Also we become kind of over powered by the
self-important attitudes. Attitudes. All over powered by the egos. Then we brought up those
emotions and then created mess to me or one's own self to the others. Then what it created?
That is the truth. When we started that, that is known, just the beginning of that is known as
a cold, neglectious teacher, Vadakshatyamuni, post-teaching, cause of suffering truth. Among
the poor truth that this is cause of suffering truths. When it's projected out, out and it's
coming, actively coming, that worry is suffering truth. That worry is suffering truth. That not
ending right there. A cold, neglectious teacher. That then creates the karma. Karma. Karma is like
ripple efforts. Ripple effort is started from the center of whatever that is, but it's not just a
stop there. It continually moving or a stay in the reactions. It created all our environment
of the consciousness. It is filled with that energies and printed that in the self-consciousness
slow house. That is known as karma. That not going, even though it subsides a little bit that time,
it's not going to completely affect the disabled. Karma returns. Karma comes back.
To who? Coming back to the dual itself, according to various teachers. I mean, you know, you read
those teachings I read and we heard these teachings from the great masters. So they are
always thoughtful with our actions. Thoughtful with actions. If we read the smallest ones,
we should thoughtful. Of course, big ones we thoughtful, but smallest ones. And in the teaching
always said, even the smallest we thoughtful don't ignore the small things, even the small sparking
fire. Small sparking fire can burn the whole valley in the countries. That started with the small
sparking. Take that example in teaching. So therefore, that is what it is. So this is what
this is, do not engage in any negative activity. That is where teachings of the according to
positive with the teaching. It is suffering, teachings on the suffering true,
cause of suffering. The next one is practicing virtue perfectly. Practicing virtue perfectly.
And now, and all practicing positive. So negativity and virtuous.
And now, negative virtue comes from where? Again, from the mind. It's not coming from outside.
It's your mind, my mind, the kind of virtuous. So virtue is something special. We always
think of virtue as so beautiful, so special. It's true, but it's from your mind, in my mind.
It's our treasure, our beauty of the name, mind. It is special, it is beautiful,
but it is our heart, nature of the heart call us, our mind. And virtue is what?
Virtue is, is from opposite of the ego cleanness. Even though we have the ego now,
but when we have the virtue, it's completely kind of a little bit opposite or other side of the eg
os.
It's more, but that's what I call, versatile. More intelligence, more origin and nature of the mind
.
Mind is not the ego. Actually, nature of the mind is not ego. Ego is obscurations.
Ego is, is temporarily arises that we develop. Nature of the mind is, a mind,
reality nature of the mind is calm, peaceful, positive, soothing, calming. That is really the
mind is. Mind is. So therefore, when we have this, when we say virtues, that means we're
touching to the, our really the richness of the mind. Readiness of mind, what that virtue is?
Virtue is we all know, I mean, talking, joy, appreciation, loving kindness, compassion,
open heart, open mind. And of course, this is known as virtues. There's nothing beside virtues.
Our meditation, our meditation, our repetition of mantra, all based on this beautiful
nature. So reciting mantra, visualize the deity, it's joy, appreciation, calm, peace,
nature calling us that we're bringing out. We're not letting leave that under the pressure of the
egos and all the negative emotions. We bring out. And when that happens, what is immediate to us in
our heart and mind, it brings more calm to ourself, calm, peaceful, joy, apogeic, more relaxed,
more grateful, graceful, more also wisdom. And it's also we develop more common sense,
basic, beautiful common sense. We develop them more, more respectful. Not kind of like rocking,
or rocking, rocking as with emotions or ego. We calm and peaceful, peaceful. And then what does?
And that is an immediate effect. But in the deep dawn, what is it? In the teaching, it claims we're
obscurators, hyper-dependence, we're cleansing, we're knocking the door over the ego cleanings,
the obstacles, is really softening, demolishing its strength and powers of the ego cleanings.
When we have that, we do it all. So that is, when we do this, then when that happens in our heart
and
mind, what that has happened in the mind, again, our whole channels, our energy filled with that
positive energy, calm, joy, peace, relaxed energy, all of that filled. And then that will begin to
reflect to externally. And we need to reflect to the other. Calm, it makes also others comfortable,
more peaceful, more soothing, more calming, more kind of friendly environments. And when that
happened, also your, our someone who had our compilations, more bright, more clay, more really
beautiful, brilliant. And maybe you will see, maybe probably say, oh, you have the auras, auras,
I can see auras. All those things really happen because the inner qualities. Buddha has a auras,
Buddha has a life. Why this? This is not just a personally kind of reserved call of the buddhas.
It is a love. It's a compassion. It's a wisdom. It's a joy. That power is the ex,
brilliant, the growing external. We see Buddha and all these enlightenings in the heart or in the
wisdom. Of course, Thakkad, artists like this, but in according, actually, in the Buddha's teaching
,
in the teaching, say, all the Buddha is always glorious. Even in the teaching, say, the darkness
night is the greatest teacher, Buddha Chantia Muni is glowing as the golden mountains with it, with
it,
light, really in the teaching city like that. So many devotees see that in far distance,
Buddha is meditating under the trees and see that glowing call. This is not just a meditate or kind
of like hallucinate. It is the call of that true nature, say, arise, arise. That is what it is.
When we do this, make ourselves calm and peaceful, make happy in the calm, peaceful others that
happen to the others, that is known as practicing. Practicing which is perfect. That is which you
perfect. And how to do that? Again, by mind, tame your mind. Not let that run by the force of the
negative emotions. When our mind is not let run by the negative emotion, our mind is calm.
Our mind is peaceful. Our activity is beneficial. Our activity is support and health that to us,
to all the beings. So this is what really it is. And then, of course, so that is the principle and
that is the positive. Positive is what? Positive is opposite of those negative emotions,
what negative emotions? Overtures. Negative emotions, I said, ego clinging, ignorance,
attachment, anger. So, egolessness. And even though we have the ego, but at least
not actively involved, kind of actively engaging with that, to subside that status, kind of like
more subside nature. And with that, more wisdom, more common sense, more loving kindness,
more comparisons, not too much grasping, clinging. When we do activity with that,
that is known as the positives, which is activities. And then to tame the one,
completely subjugate your own mind, subjugate your own mind. So those are the ways to subjugate
mind by saying right. Then subjugate mind is meditations. And meditation, as I said, there's
three meditations, ekolu vediyana, visualization, repetition of mantra, and vista meditation,
or vista mind meditations. And meditate, you receive the instruction, we all meditate with
mindfulness. Such as then, kamada meditation, vivakshana meditation, hodzoki meditation,
those all will tame, tame the mind and discover it is the origin, beautiful nature of the mind.
So that is really about this, and that's my really kind of, just a little bit,
reminder to our practices, really, and trying to, trying to stay and maintain in this state.
And as I said, again, I'm so thankful to everyone for coming and making time. I know everyone is
difficult to, but making this time and coming, thank, okay. And then also, since we're all coming,
we're trying to make this time, something really, you know, feel like the good things to positive
this as we're trying to do this as much as we can do with more relaxing and calm, peaceful,
and this with those motivation, atmosphere, and that is really practicing. And this then becomes,
it becomes so meaningful. And I just thank you, thank you everyone. And we do again,
a few minute, one minute meditation, and then we dare to get the short derogator, please.